[Music]
ten facts that might save your life one
day
[Music]
most of us nowadays are used to living
in a safe bubble of comfort and
predictability but the day may come when
you decide to try something new and go
into the wild or maybe you're a nature
lover and do it every weekend in any
case it is essential to know how to
protect yourself in an emergency
brightside invites you to try some
extraordinary ways to use simple things
that may help you survive in the
wilderness also at the end of the video
you will find a bonus that will prevent
you from making one fatal mistake number
10 pantyhose yes you've heard correctly
take pantyhose with you it will protect
you from insects ticks and leeches just
one important thing to avoid unpleasant
bites take two pairs of pantyhose with
you wear one pair as usual but to a
small trick with the other one cut it at
the feet make a hole for your head in
the middle and put it on your top like a
jumper voila
you're protected what's more pantyhose
can act like a net designed to catch
fish from the river like a water filter
not super useful but sufficient in
extreme situations special dust blocking
masks and besides it can keep your feet
free from blisters number 9 garbage bags
good old garbage bags do you still use
them just to get rid of trash there's so
much more to them in the wilderness use
them as a rain cover you will take some
garbage bags with you to protect the
environment but such a bag can be
quickly transformed into a raincoat and
a waterproof cover for your belongings
if you need a raincoat just cut a neck
hole in the bottom of the bag and make
arm holes on the sides your raincoat is
ready to wear
even more vital is the knowledge that
you can use garbage bags to protect
yourself from frost you need to wrap
yourself with bags and put on as many
clothes as you can on top this trip will
save you from Frost for longer number
eight
baking soda when going out to nature
don't forget to put baking soda into
your bag first of all it can serve as a
fire extinguisher baking soda is an
ingredient of fire extinguishing
substances which means it can beat a
small forest fire it is a great
disinfectant as well you need a solution
of 1 tablespoon of baking soda per 1
liter of water and it will help to kill
dangerous bacteria so you can use it to
disinfect fruit or vegetables you have
taken with you to vary your diet
number 7 vinegar vinegar can be
successfully used as a burn south if you
have a minor burn which affects only the
top layers of skin not a deeper burn
with blisters apple cider vinegar will
be of great help dip the burned part of
skin into vinegar and water solution and
it will help the area to relax kill the
pain and speed up regeneration another
useful property of vinegar is that it
can mask your smell so that some hungry
bear doesn't decide you are a good
enough lunch vinegar in this case acts
as a deodorant which conceals your smell
for protection against wild animals
number 6 duct tape
splinters are quite bothersome what with
inflammation and pain especially when
you don't have any medical help at hand
in this case duct tape will be just the
thing to help you if the splinter isn't
completely under your skin you can take
it out with a strip of duct tape which
you will most likely have in your bag
anyway you'll need to attach the tape to
the place where the splinter is sitting
press and then pull in the direction of
the splinter another way duct tape can
be helpful is to stop bleeding if you
have run out of band-aids duct tape can
be a sufficient replacement number five
a watch yes your watch can help you to
find your way when you're lost well
there's one thing it works only when the
sun's up but you can always spend a cozy
night in a tree can't you anyway when
the Sun is up you can use your watch as
a compass if you're in the northern
hemisphere put it on some flat surface
your palm will work as well the hour
hand should point to the Sun divide the
angle between the hour hand and number
12 by half the middle of the angle will
be south and north will be its opposite
now you know where to go further number
four
socks
socks can save a life don't laugh it's
true if a person is drowning a sock can
be transformed into a rescue line to
throw to them it just needs to be filled
with dry twigs which will stay afloat
while the person can hold on to the sock
[Music]
number three tampons take several packs
of tampons with you to the wilderness
they are beneficial and not only in the
way you have thought about they can be
used for water filtration this water
cleansing technique is far from perfect
but in extreme conditions it might be
the only choice you need to cut a bottle
in half and turn the top part over then
dissect a tampon and place it into the
bottleneck if you make a hole in the cap
the filtered water will drip through
tampons can keep you warm it's not a
joke you can use them if you need to
start a fire
any tampon is basically a piece of
cotton wool which burns nicely so to
heat yourself up just tear a tampon
apart and use it to get a fire burning
number two potato chips
there's one more way to start a fire
using some potato chips it may come as a
surprise but these snacks catch fire
very well and burned for a long time it
happens thanks to the oil added to them
typically twelve percent of a chips
weight is fat
[Music]
number one chewing gum shockingly
chewing gum can help to preserve your
provisions it helps to suppress light
hunger which can save your limited
amount of food from excess consumption
it's not the flavor or sweetness it's
the movements of chewing that persuade
our body that we have got the snack
we've been craving for here's the bonus
what to do if you are stabbed with a
knife life is life and dangerous things
happen getting stabbed with a knife or
another sharp object isn't a rare case
in the wilderness or even at home if
somehow you got stabbed
never pull the knife out especially if
you got it in your chest abdomen or
thigh the knife often blocks an artery
or vein while inside the body and
pulling it out may start a fatal
bleeding the best thing to do is to seek
medical attention right away without
touching the weapon
if you have found this video useful
please don't forget to hit the like
button below and click subscribe to join
us on the bright side